# Technoplatz BI

It's time to get data-driven with your inner-cycle!

- [What Technoplatz BI does](#community-edition)
- [Cloud Platform](#cloud-platform)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Maintenance](#maintenance)
- [Licensing Options](#licensing-options)
- [About](#about)

## What Technoplatz BI does

Technoplatz BI is a low-code, multi-container data application and sharing platform designed to establish and manage data-driven business process without the need to develop software from scratch. Considering that each business has its own unique conditions it provides an optimized and pragmatic solution for the main requirements below;

- Self-service Data Management\
<span style="font-size: small; font-weight: bold;">[DATA APPLICATION](#data-application)</span>
- Completion of processes through Integration\
<span style="font-size: small; font-weight: bold;">[BI-DIRECTIONAL DATA SHARING](#bi-directional-data-sharing)</span>
- Web services and Automation\
<span style="font-size: small; font-weight: bold;">[INTERNAL API](#api)</span>

### Data Application

Technoplatz BI's internal progressive web application module allows you to manage data-driven processes in a unique cross-platform interface. It is a powerful alternative for those who are trying to handle their data operations on spreadsheets or legacy software.

- System Administration\
<sup>Management of administrative components.</sup>
- CRUD+\
<sup>Performing basic data operations.</sup>
- Actions\
<sup>One-click conditional bulk data update.</sup>
- Automation\
<sup>Scheduled smart tasks executed on data collections.</sup>
- Data Visualization\
<sup>Shareable charts, pivots and descriptive statistics.</sup>
- Log Tracking\
<sup>Traceable transaction history per record.</sup>

### BI-directional Data Sharing

The product is designed to provide solutions especially for cases where business partners are the integral part of business processes in terms of the data they need to share and the actions they need to take. For this reason, it provides complementary methods to share data bi-directionally within the **inner-cycle** of customers, suppliers, distributors and other internal departments.

- **Data Announcements**\
Business partners can be informed regarding the data they need to share and the actions they need to take, via instant or scheduled e-mail messages automatically generated by the system. These messages can be powered by excel data files and pivot tables.

- **Data Connectors**\
Live and secure data links allow business partners to access their own data read-only through Microsoft Excel or other business intelligence tools.

- **Web Services**\
Web services is one of the features provided by internal API and allow partners to perform basic data operations on the system directly. Permissions can be given on operation basis and restricted by special filters.

### API

The internal Application Programming Interface has been developed in Python programming language with a monolithic structure. Its object-oriented structure allows multiple background services to run simultaneously and asynchronously.

- Internal Functions\
<sup>Runs core modules and allow data sharing.</sup>
- External Functions (Web Services)\
<sup>Allows to perform data operations remotely.</sup>
- CronJobs\
<sup>Runs scheduled Automation tasks.</sup>

### Highlights

Technoplatz BI is designed as a self-service and containerized business application that can be managed by companies of various sizes and users with different skills. Containerization means that applications run in isolated runtime environment called containers with their dependencies, configuration files and operating system. This approach provides advantage of sustainability and significant cost reduction in the management of mission critical business processes;

- **Dedicated**. Runs on your own cloud. Not shared.
- **Self Service**. Management of your data is now totally under your control.
- **Platform Independent**. It can be installed on Windows, Linux or Mac.
- **Open Source**. Everyone can review the codes and learn from them a lot.
- **Flexible**. It has the sweet smell of JSON data structure.
- **Scalable**. Starts small and expands as needed.
- **Data Sciences Ready**. Accessible from other BI tools and Microsoft Excel.
- **ISO Friendly**. Empowers ISO 27001 certification processes, it is not a stopper.

### Used Technologies

Technoplatz BI is powered by the leading open source information technologies;

- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose)
- [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com)
- [Python](https://www.python.org)
- [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org)
- [Ionic Angular Ts](https://ionicframework.com)
- [GitHub](https://github.com)

## Cloud Platform

Technoplatz BI runs on the Docker platform which is the leading open source virtualization technology for developing, shipping and running business grade applications. You can install Docker on your personal computer for free or buy a hosted cloud service from many providers. The links below will guide you about how to install Docker on the platform you choose;

- [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/kubernetes-service/docker/), [Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/marketplace/docs/container-images), [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-2jrv4ti3v2r3e?sr=0-1&ref_=beagle&applicationId=AWSMPContessa), [DigitalOcean](https://marketplace.digitalocean.com/apps/docker), [IBM Cloud](https://www.ibm.com/de-de/cloud/learn/docker)
- [Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install), [Linux](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/linux-install), [Mac OS](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install)

#### System Requirements

Below you can find the minimum configuration for the system to work properly on a Docker platform. The configuration can be increased in proportion to the number of connections to be established, instant cpu load and the amount of data to be processed.

2 CPU\
4GB Ram\
20GB Hard Disk (SSD recommended)

## Installation

The installation of the product consists of steps must follow each other. In order to run the necessary commands [GiT](https://git-scm.com) must be installed on your computer and a certain level of command line experience is required.

#### 1. The First Touch
Docker platforms which are available in the marketplaces of many cloud service providers may not be up to date in terms of operating system at the time of purchase. Therefore, in the first step it is recommended to establish an SSH connection to the platform and perform a system update immediately. The platform should be rebooted after the updates are complete.

```bash
apt update && apt upgrade -y
```
```bash
reboot
```

#### 2. Downloading the Application
Reconnect to the platform again to clone the official BI repository from Github.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/technoplatz/bi.git
```

Then go to the new **bi** folder which is going to be created.

```bash
cd bi
```

#### 3. Setting the Environment Parameters
Edit the ".env" file, replace the sample values with your own data and save the file. Changes should only be made in the user parameters section at the top of the file.

```bash
TZ=Europe/Berlin
DOMAIN=localhost
USER_EMAIL=bi@company.com
USER_NAME=John Doe
COMPANY_NAME=Acme Company Inc.
FROM_EMAIL=bi@company.com
FROM_NAME=Technoplatz
```

<sup>**TZ:** Time zone of your platform's location.\
**DOMAIN:** Leave it "localhost" for testing or personal use.\
**USER_EMAIL:** E-mail address of Administrator user.\
**USER_NAME:** Name and surname of Administrator user (eg. John Doe).\
**COMPANY_NAME:** Legal business name of your organization.\
**FROM_EMAIL:** Sender address (From) of the e-mails sent by the system.\
**FROM_NAME:** Name or nickname appears next to the sender address.</sup>

<sup>TZ must be entered according to the official TZ format (eg. America/New_York)\
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones</sup>

#### 4. Setting the Secrets

There are three parameters that must be included in certain files in terms of system security. You can create the necessary parameters and files in accordance with the rules by using the commands below.

| Secret Name | File Name |
| :--- | :--- |
|  BI API Key | .secret-bi-apikey |
|  Database Password | .secret-mongo-password |
|  Sendgrid API Key | .secret-sendgrid-apikey |

- BI API Key\
It is the internal API key that must be generated if the system is used in a real internet environment. The following command will generate a new random key and write it into the related file. The API key can be changed later but this operation requires [restarting the containers](#restarting-containers).

    ```bash
    echo $(date | sha256sum | base64 | head -c 24) > .secret-bi-apikey
    ```

- Database Password\
It is the password of the authorized database user. The following command will generate a new random password and write it into the related file. Database password can be changed later but this operation requires [restarting the containers](#restarting-containers).

    ```bash
    echo $(date | sha256sum | base64 | head -c 10) > .secret-mongo-password
    ```

- Sendgrid API Key\
It is used for sending automated emails over the [Sendgrid](#https://sendgrid.com) which is the leading e-mail sender provider. Please find the further information about how to obtain an API key on Sendgrid at https://docs.sendgrid.com/ui/account-and-settings/api-keys#creating-an-api-key. After creating an API key in the Sendgrid, copy this key, paste it into the starred area below and run the command.

    ```bash
    echo -n "********" > .secret-sendgrid-apikey
    ```

#### 5. Starting Containers

Enter the command below to start the containers by keeping them up and running in the background. This step may take time up to a couple of minutes depending on your internet bandwidth;

```bash
docker-compose up --detach --remove-orphans
```

In order to open your first session go to the following address in your web browser, click the "Sign in" button, enter your email and password which you provided in the .env file.

```bash
http://localhost:8100
```

You can log out and exit the platform safely after the installation is complete. Technoplatz BI continues to run in the background and restarts automatically when the platform is rebooted.

## Maintenance

Unlike the enterprise edition the community edition doesn't provide any official support about maintenance and troubleshooting issues. As long as the system resources are not exceeded you are not expected to encounter a serious problem however the actions to be taken for certain situations are explained in below topics.

#### Getting the Latest Updates

```bash
docker-compose pull && docker-compose up --detach --remove-orphans
```

#### Starting Containers

```bash
docker-compose up --detach --remove-orphans
```

#### Stopping Containers

```bash
docker-compose down
```

#### Cleaning

Performing the system updates and restarting of containers frequently can create unnecessary files that may fill up your disk space. The command below helps you to remove all unused resources to make more room for the BI;

```bash
docker system prune
```

#### Log Tracking

- To track the container logs;

    ```bash
    docker-compose logs -f
    ```

- To track the logs of a certain container;

    ```bash
    docker-compose logs -f | grep 'api'
    ```

#### Operationg System Updates

To perform operating system updates and reboot regularly.

```bash
apt update && apt upgrade -y
```
```bash
reboot
```

## Production

Even though the Community Edition is provided for testing and local use, there is no stopper to using the system in a live business environment in terms of licensing. However, before starting to use the system in a real business environment, some recommended actions should be taken in terms of performance and security issues. You can access the electronic document prepared on this subject [here](#).

## Licensing Options

Technoplatz BI is provided in two licensing options;

- Community Edition
- Enterprise Edition (Brezel)

<div class="licensing">

| | Community Edition | Enterprise Edition |
| :--- | :---: | :---: |
|  Hosting | Self Hosted | SaaS |
|  Integration | No | Yes |
|  Database | MongoDB 6 | MongoDB 6 |
|  DB Replication | Yes [3 internal nodes] | Yes [3 nodes] |
|  DB Transactions | Yes | Yes |
|  Web App Firewall | No | Yes |
|  <span style="white-space: nowrap;">Two-Factor Authentication</span> | Yes | Yes |
|  Support | No | Yes |
|  Custom Domain | Yes | Yes |
|  Custom Branding | Not Allowed | Yes |
|  Licensing | GNU AGPL v3.0 | GNU AGPL v3.0 + SLA |
|  Pricing | Free | [Get a Quote](#) |

</div>

## About
Official Web Site\
[https://bi.technoplatz.com](https://bi.technoplatz.com)

### Developer
Mustafa Mat [@mustafamat](https://www.github.com/mustafamat)\
Founder, Technoplatz IT Solutions GmbH\
<sup>Senior Developer - Data Sciences, Statistics B.Sc.</sup>

--
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Technoplatz/bi/dev0/.github/md.css">